Understanding the Role of the Product Owner 

The Three Facets of Product Ownership 
    Product Owners primary responsibility is to maximize the value of the product 
    (Accountable for ROI of scrum team)

        Product Backlog 
            A list of all necessary for the successful delivery of the product 
            Product Owner is accountable for the cration of this list 
            Anyone can add to the Product Backlog 
            Product Owner is responsible for ordering of the list. 
            **Product owners should be solely responsible for the product backlog to produce a consistent product 

    3 Facets of Product Ownership 
        Product Management 
            Defining overall vision for the product 
            & Communication of vision 
            Refining the release strategy 

        Buisness Analysis 
            Identifying requirements for a successful product 
            updating the product backlog to reflect those requirements 

        Project Management 
            Managing the project budget 
            Ensuring project timetable is on track 
            -Authority to choose and direct teams work (Not how) 
                
        Leadership           
            Inside the team 
                Guiding the team in the creation and reaching objectives 
            Outside the team   
                Acting as champion for the product and team to the organisation 


The capacity of a Product Owner 
    1 PO to 1 Scrum Team.  Full Time.    

    Product Owners may deletgate some of their responsibilities 
    But accountability that all of the responsabilities are met rest with the Product Owner 
    The Product Vision must be owned by a single Produce Owner 


Exploring the dynamics between the Scrum Master and Product Owner 
    Scrum Master        - Helps team adhere to the rules of Scrum Framework
        Ensures that the Scrum Team operates as efficiently as possiblle
        Facilities the ceremonies 
        Protects the tream from outside disruptions 
        Removes any impediments that arise form the teams path (small blockers - licences, accesses)
            *one of the most valuable assets of a Scrum Master is their sphere of influence within their organisation* 
        "Responsible for mentoring each member of the Scrum Team" - The Entire Team!  

    Product Owner       - Defines and shares the overall vision for the product
        Single source of knowledge for the product 
        defines and communcates the produce vision wit the rest of the scrum team 
        Ensures that the product backlog accurately represents the product vision  

    Development Team    - Does the work to create and deliver the product 


Understanding the role of The Development Team 
    Everyone who contributes to the developmenmt of the product is a Developer 
        (Dev, Tester, Designer)

    Cross-functional Development teams 
        Operates more independantly in the organisation 
        reduces hand-offs between isolated teams 
        Contains the mix of skills necessary to deliver the product 
            (Engineer may need to help test)

    Size Matters 
        Reccomended size is 3-9 members. 
        Large enough to be self-sufficient 
        But not too large to coordinate 
        Common size is 5-7.
        Ideal size is 4-5.
        (1 PO, 1 Scrum Master, 3 Developers)

    Scrum Teams are self-organising 
        Those doing the work know how to best approach the work. 


First among equals 
    Noone is the leader - The Team leads themselves. 
    PO is considered a First Among Equals. 
    PO has the final say.

    THE PO WILL DRIVE THE SETTING OF CLEAR GOALS FOR THE TEAM, 
    THE SCRUM MASTER AND THE DEV TEAM WILL DECIDE HOW MOST EFFECTIVELY REACH THOSE GOALS    

    POs should act as enablers for their team to build strong relationships. 

    


