Scrum Fundamentals 

Agile Beginnings
    Agile is a philosophy
    Scrum is a framework for managing software projects in an Agile mindset. 
    Kanban is also ^ 
    XP is also ^ 

    The Agile Manifesto 
        - Individuals and interactions over processes and tools     (Discourage teams from electronic project management tools) 
        - Working software over comprehensive documentation         (Not to discourage documentation, but to remind teams that documentation is the goal)
        - Customer collaboration over contract negotiation          ( (customer == stakeholder) Collaborate to deliver the value at time of delivery)
        - Responding to change over following a plan                (Adapting to reality, changes in requirements, funding, team etc)

        Note - Tenants describe an outcome, not how to acheive said outcome. 
        Note - "Over", X over Y... X 


The Roots of Scrum
    Scrum came from from Empirical Process Control (or Empiricism)
        philosophy - Knowledge comes only, or primarlly, from experience

    Empirically Driven Descisions   - Making desicions based only on what has occured 
    Lagging indicatiors             - use indicators from historical metrics 

    Make desicisons based on what has happened in the past! 


The Three Legs of Empiricism
    Scrum is a framework, not a process. 

    Definition of key tasks & routine, 
    non-prescriptive 
    
    Scrum Framework + Your Environment = Your process 
    "Your scrum is not my scrum" 
    Organisation structure, team dynamics, job complexity all adds variables to the scrum. 

    3 Legs of Empiricism 
        Inspection
            Constantly inspect both the project and the process every step of the way 
            Look for variances 
            strike the right balance 
        
        Adaption
            Reduce what isnt working, increase what is. 
            Introduce changes at the right time
            Adapt the process to serve the project  
            
        Transparency 
            Make your pace and progress visual 
            Encourage openness across team 
            share clear status across team boundaries 
            
    Scrum doesn't solve your problems
    Scrum enables you to highlight them. 

What About Engineering?
    Scrum doesn't care about engineering practices.
    The focus is entirely on project management principles 
    most "high performing" scrum teams adopt XP along side of Scrum 

Moving On
    AgileManifesto.Org 
        4 Tenants 
        12 Principles 

    ScrumGuides.Org 
        
    Extreme Programming
    