Kicking Off The Sprint 

Sprint ~    "A timeboxed unit of work which the team works together to deliver 
            a potentially releasable product increment." 

Getting to Know the Team
    
    Starting Sprint on a Wednesday? 
        Avoids most holidays 
        Avoids single vacation days  
        Wednesdays are least popular day for holidays

    Key People in Scrum Teams 
        Scrum Master 
        Product Owner 
            -Accountable for ensuring that work is doing is always the absolute highest value they can be doing"     
        Development Team 
            -Responsible for delivering the product increment 

    Goals of the Sprint Planning Ceremony
        **Sprint Planning for a 1 month sprint is 8 hours 
        **Sprint Planning for a 2 Week sprint is Timeboxed at 4 hours
            -If we're not done by the 4th hour, then move forward with current work. Look for ways to improve efficiency next time.  

        Answer these questions; 

        What will we deliver? 
            -Determine what would be the most valuable outcome of this sprint 

        How will we deliver it?
            -Create a plan to deliver it within the confines of this sprint 


What Will you Deliver? 
    1st Question "What can we deliver as a product increment as a result of this sprint" 
        Buisness Objective of the sprint is X 

    The Product Backlog 
        An artifact of the Scrum Framework
            -a living document that represents the current product vision  
        A plan to realise the product vision
            -contains all items known to be necessary to meet that vision 
        The definition of all neccassary items 
            -each item contains all information necessary to understand its intent 

        Each item added to the sprint backlog has a short description, and a rough estimate. 

    A Product Backlog Item (PBI)
        A simple descrition about the intent of the item 
        Each item isn't a complete requirements document, but a placeholder for a conversation. 
            "The details of each item should remain malleable depending on any number of factors"
            "Agile approaches encourage the product owner and the Dev team to collaborate to meet the goal specified on each card"

        A rough estimate of the item's complexity
        Used for rough planning purposes, and in no way construed as a commitment from the Dev team
            "Those who will actually doing the work, are those who estimate the work" 
            -Drop previous Estimate of PBI 
            -Add new Exstimate of PBI after conversation 
            Top Left = a value of proirity
                A - Critial To products success  
                B - Not quite Critical, but more than a footnote.
                C - Add Value, increase usability or request from customer 
                    "Its unlikely they would warrent more than a footnote in the release notes"  

                X - If a product doesn't add any value, its not even added to the product backlog, because there's no value in it. 
          
        Its not 'how value is measured', but critical that value is measured.  
            aids to facilitate a discussion whether the team is working on the highest value work available  

    Ordering the Product Backlog is Ordered by design.
        Product Backlogs are ordered by highest proirity first;
            Business Value 
                -What value will the item provide to the organization? 
            Risk 
                -What risk can be addressed sooner rather than later? 
            Technical neccessity 
                -Is this item necessary to deliver a higer value item? 

    Product Backlog items with higher priority should be more refined than those with lower priority. 
        

How Long will it take you? 
    2nd Question: 

    Estimating in Complexity 
        Estimating in time is poorly suited to software development 
        Humans are more adept at estimating in relative quantities than exact quantities 

    Velocity 
        The total amount of work that a team can successfully complete within a single sprint. 
        -Based on empirical data 
        -Provides baseline from which to forecase 
        -Can be easily adjusted for expected variances 

        Next sprint we'll compare Starting vs Ending velocity, then reposition accordingly. 

    1st PBI "Export the Profit and Loss Report as CSV" 
        Planning Poker allows the team to arrive collaboratively at an estimate for each item 
        *Scrum doesn't dictate how they are estimated. Only that they are.*
    
        Dev Team vote from a complexity of;     1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, ? (WTF is this, needs breaking down)

        2  - Straightforward Problem 
        8  - Complex Interesting Challenge, Familliar with concept & Data structure, but required Learning a new Library 
        21 - Toughest Feature we've tackled in some time, Didn't have data in a format we needed, Didn't understand buisness rules behind. Took Weeks!  

    Effort is intentionally vague & means different things to different teams. 
        5 People may complete 25 points in a 2 week sprint.
        5 people may only complete 13 points in the same sprint. 

        Maybe each team has a different understanding of what the size of a complexity point is.
            Each team must be able to select reference items 
    
    Its not how many complexity points are assigned to each item. Its simply to create them in the first place.
        Create reference points, empirical data!!!!


Playing a round of Planning Poker 
    How do you feel about the complexity of X? 
        compare the complexity against the agreed-upon baseline
        -If its as complex than one of the reference points, place it there, little higher, little lower no worries 
        -If its more complex than the 21 reference point, Throw that "?"!! 
            - Primarly to prompt further discussion within the development team or to break the PBI into several smaller items 

    We'll only add items to the sprint we're confident we can deliver in a 2 week period. 
        that 21 pointer took 6 weeks. Not coming into sprint. Requires further breakdown.

    Complextiy should take into account the entire effort to deliver an item 
        Encompassing; Building, Peer Reviewing, Dev Testing, QA Testing  

    A Round of Planning Poker 
        A Tosses 8 
        B Tosses 2 
        C Tosses 5 

        "B - Why do you feel that items is a 2?" 
            Data and buisness rules are defined 
            Existing option for export is available 
            "Seems straightforward" 

        "A - Why do you feel that item is an 8?" 
            Acknowledges Previous success - Noted from B 
            More complex because reports are incredibly detailed
            Testing will be a pain 

    Reconsidering new information, Lets do another round. 
        A Tosses 5 
        B Tosses 5
        C Tosses 5 
    
        Team Agrees on Complexity, PO Updates PBI Item. 

    This is a forecast of work we think we can complete in this sprint, not a commitment. 
        Team should work at a sustainable pace! 

    Predictability is the goal, not Velocity.
        I Predict that team X will complete 15 points of work each sprint   -   GOOD 
        team X achieved 10 points, 20 points then 12 points.                -   BAD 

    Crafting the Sprint Goal 
        Scrum team comes together to create a sprint goal. 
            Focus on the What, not the How. 
            
            Bottom up Sprint Goal 
                Crafted from as cohesive description of all items selected for the Sprint 
                
            Top Down Sprint Goal 
                Crafted from the vision of the product and the Sprint objective 

        "Provide various options for customers to expert their data from the Profit and Loss Report" 
            -Keeps teams focused on goal


How Will you Deliver it? 
    We've Agreed upon items, And created a sprint goal .
    
    Answer the question; 
        "How will we work together to deliver the product increment?" 

    Develop a plan for delivery
        Breakdown Product Backlog Items 
            Identify the tasks necessary to finish each item
            (No estimates of tasks)
        Size the tasks appropriately 
            Limit each task to no more than 1 day in duration 
            (Gives better understanding of how we are pacing towards the overall goal each day)
            If one task tseems like it will take more than one day to complete, simply break it down further into smaller tasks. 
        Build the Sprint Backlog 
            Contains all items selected for the sprint 

    Responsibilities During Task Breakdown 
        -Scrum Master & Dev team formulate plans to tackle items 
        -May realise that original estimate was incorrect & needing to be revisited 
            Scrum Master facilitates the breakdown of PBIs 
            PO Clarifies on PBIs as neccassary 

        PBIs down into tasks, and sub-tasks. 
        
    Noone is allowed to redirect the team's efforts, Except for the Product Owner. 
        Anyone else approaches us to ask us to change priorites, send them to PO. 
        Some "High Priority" request won't be able to wait until next sprint, 
        But PO Needs to be aware of impact of requests towards sprint goal.  
