Keeping the Sprint on Track 

The Daily Scrum is a planning meeting, not a status meeting. 
    "The daily scrum is our chance to plan how we'll move ourselves closer to the Sprint Goal today" 

    Timeboxed to 15 Mins. 
    Not a status Meeting, This is a planning session for the day. 
    -The aim of the daily scrum is for the team to understand;
        where they are after the previous day's efforts
        where they want to be at the end of todays efforts 
        & what needs to happen to help them get there. 
    
    "What do you plan to do today, to move closer to the sprint goal?" 
    Held in the morning 

    Principle of Recency 
        Things that are most recently learned are best remembered. 

    "Take a moment on the way to the Daily Scrum, to consider what your plan for the day is"

    It's not meant to be as fast as possible. 
        Its meant to gain the most value from that timebox
        The timebox is a lever, not a hammer.  
        -If the value that the conversation is creating outweighs the value of adhering to the timebox, we value the conversation

    Efficiency =/= Effectiveness 
        5 minute daily scrum is Efficient, sure. 
        But if the team leaves the meeting without a clear picture of how they need to work together
        to move forward for the day, it was a waste of time  

        Whereas a 20 minute daily scrum is that leaves a team with a clear picture for the day is effective, 
        because it produced meaningful value within the team. 

        Take effectiveness over Efficiency, but don't lose sight of either. 


The Team's First Daily Scrum 
    To Do >> In Progress >> Testing >> Done 

    1 Item at a time 
     
    Cross-Functional Team 
        -Everyone works towards the sprint goal 
        whether its Deving or Testing, actively remove bottlenecks "Look Right" 


    Format of the Daily Scrum 
        Answer 3 Questions; 
        "What did I do yesterday that helped the Developmenmt Team meet the Sprint goal?"
        "What will i do today to help the Development Team meet the sprint goal?"
        "Do I see any impediment that prevents me or the Dev team from meeting the sprint goal?"
            -Most Important
            -Seeks to Identify any struggles / difficulties keeping the individual from performing fully 
            -Anything slowing you down, you should be completely comfortable bringing it up here
            so that we can work through it as a team to fix it! 

            Commitment to another project? 
            Missing access to environment? 
            Stuck on issues? 
                new Framework or technology? 
                new area of codebase?
                particularly tough problem? 
                    -Someone may know how to fix X  

            Breakouts for assistance etc should happen after the daily scrum

        Each member should be able to answer these questions in 2 minutes 

    Remember that the Daily Scrum is a planning meeting for the Development Team, not a status meeting for the Scrum Master. 
        -Focus on the scrum board while talking 

    Daily scrum is only intended for the Development Team
        -Doesn't really include ScrumMaster or PO


Possible Ways to Modify the Daily Scrum 

    Burn Down Chart
        Tracks Progress throughout the sprint 
        Y) Starts High, Ends Low. 
        X) From Start of Sprint, to End of Sprint. 
        Ideal burn rate line 
        -Provides insight into current progress of the sprint 

    Teams who manually update their burn down chart show more awareness of how they are pacing toward their goal. 


Getting the most from your Daily Scrum 
    Encourage people look at the sprint board 

    Be present at the standups 

    Removing impediements effectively 
        -Listen for issues that are plaguing the team that aren't being brought up 
        -Listen to what is not being said 
        -Don't overpromise what you can remove 
        -Learn to navigate the politics of your organisation  (Who can help with X?)
        -Don't burn bridges you may need later 

    A Dead scrummaster is a useless scrummaster
